# Regression Analysis on Fuel Efficiency vs. Mode of Transmission (AT/MT)

This is a brief PDF document that looks into the relationship between fuel efficiency and mode of transmission of an automobile. The study is part of the final week's peer-graded assingment section where students and submittees are required to establish and analyse a mathematical relationship between fuel consumption given in miles per gallon (mpg) and the effect of mode of transmission on that effiiciency figure.

## Which data has been used here?

The data used here is the `mtcars` dataset provided with R itself, in the `datasets` package that comes preloaded with R when the console is loaded. You can simply load the `mtcars` data by providing `mtcars` as a single command. Its not a large dataset, rather its small with only 32 rows and 11 columns. That is, a data frame of 32 automobiles wth 11 of their characteristics recorded here. These characteristics range from things like miles per gallon, to displacement, weight in thousand pounds, so on and so forth. Of course, there is the `am` variable that signifies whether a select automobile is automatic transmission or manual. How the transmission mode influences the fuel efficiency of a vehicle will be investigated by some regression methods that I describe them below in this document.

## Strategy for selecting the right regression model
Selecting the right regression model is an essential task to conduct an efficient research. It is also a tricky task since there is no general specification or a prescription to select one model or method over the another. In fact, there could only be recomendations by collaborrators working on a common project. In case of only a single individual conducting a research, selecting a specific regression model will depend on the type and range of data concerned. Of course, additional factors too matter, such as the category of a variable (whether its categorical, factorial, integer or simply numeric/quantitative), the range of dummy variables or simply the overall length of a dataset. In most cases, just a linear model suffices; however, to generate more realistic results or in such situations that require results to be as authentic and close to the real picture as possible, the selection of models extends beyond linear models.

However, this is without saying that an inclusion of a linear model can be helpful for both the individual interpreting his thesis as well as for the audience in general interpreting those results. Many researchers actually do include linear models just to give a gist of what they're trying to convey. Linear models in most cases have the advantage of being simple to apply and interpret by researchers as well as the public at large. In such cases where only a singe variable has been used, linear models almost always give accurate results. However, in lots of other instances where more than a single or dual variable(s) is/are involved, selecting a multivariable regression model with and without adjustments is the proper way to go. Regression models also have the advantage of pliability, that is, they can be modified according to the situation and dataset, as well as to get different results for each setting. And hence, regression modelling is one of the primary areas of actuarial and data sciences. In the latter's context, it is often recommmended to conduct regressions first before moving on to machine learning techniques.

## Avoiding some common mistakes
Committing errors and mistakes is part of selecting and applying the best possible regression model. However, certain errors can always be avoided. While assigning variables to a model, researchers commit such errors like categorising variables under wrong categories or even selecting the wrong regressors. At times, several people commit the error of assigning mutilple (or all) variables to the regression model, thinking that this approach might provide with the most realistic values. It has to be noted that in cases of multivariable regressions, selecting the appropriate variables has to be done intelligently and with much thought as only that would provide the most accurate results instead of just selecting every variable before testing. There are also some more common mistakes such as assigning inappropriate values to dummy or binary variables and selecting a not-so-right regression model. Its best to first go through the differences between each regression model before selecting one at pure discretion. Certain models might be confusing; for example I had confusions regarding differences between logit and probit models during my college years and often found myself applying the wrong one, but their purposes soon got clear through experience and a bit more research into their tids and bits. It got clear than logistic regression (logit) was specifically invented for binary data while probit was only an extension of the logit model but with similar techniques. Either way, you could use the logit model or the probit model for a more detailed regression analysis but with similar and in some cases, even identical results. And hence, both are identical binomial models.

## Setting regression for `mtcars`
The `mtcars` dataset consists of 11 ariables for 32 observations. Since the data involves simple observations, and since the set is open to anyone for practice or publishing, any regression model can be applied here and tested for its results. The PDF document accompanying this repository shows only simple linear model with also a generalised version of it between `mpg` as the outcome and `am` as the regressor. The latter variable is binary and consists of only zeroes and ones. Any number of variables can be selected to decide on the fuel efficiency factor; however, since we were only interested in digging out the degree of influence of **only** the `am` variable, the linear model in my method cotnains only that variable. The reason for choosing only a single variable isntead of many is because increasing the number of variables in a model reduces the accuracy for results for each variable. And hence, as an example, if 5 variables were to be included, the coefficient for `am` would differ significantly as compared to including only the transmission variable.

Much of the analysis has been presented in the PDF file that doesn't need to be reproduced here in the readme; however, although the overall method may not be perfect, it provides a visible fact that manual cars are way more efficient than automatics. This is also very evident from the diagnostics and residual plots included in the appendix that suggest that most estimatins and predictions if need to be carried out, will come out as accurate as possible.

**This is still a work in progress.**
